docs/DESIGNV2.md, before:

# Self-hosted Mail Server

The self hosted mail server is the foundational component for Email Alias Service V2. It's role is to support SMTP administration and handle the forwarding and managment of emails. 

An evaluation of open source SMTP servers can be found in [Appendix A -SMTP Server Review](#appendix-a---smtp-server-review).

**Example**

Following is an example scenario from [Email Alias Service](#appendix-d---email-alias-service):

> 1. Buy a .country domain (e.g., fsociety.country)
> 2. Activate Email Alias Service by setting a forwarding email address (e.g., mr.robot@gmail.com)
> 3. Done! Now you can receive emails at hello@fsociety.country. All emails will be secretly forwarded to mr.robot@gmail.com

Here is the same example broken down in to the technical components, in this example we assume the use of Maddy email server[^71]

 *Note: Maddy was chosen over mailcow due to it's modular framework [^72] support allowing for development of web3 plugins*

**Technical Process Flow (High Level)**

1. Buy a .country domain (e.g., fsociety.country)
   1. User interacts with dot-country fronted [^5]
   2. Pricing is retrieved from [DC.sol](https://github.com/polymorpher/dot-country/tree/main/contracts/contracts) via the relayer
   3. User Authorizes and purchases the domain using the 1ns contracts deployed via ens-deployer [^9].
2. Activate Email Alias Service by setting a forwarding email address (e.g., mr.robot@gmail.com)
   1. User interacts with EAS Frontend[^6]
   2. EAS Frontend calls an DEES API which interacts with the DEES Maddy sender /recepient rewriting(DMSR) custom developed module [^74] or alternatively interacts with the server EAS server[^6].
   3. MSR Module interacts with go-1ns [^10] to update the EAS Contract[^6] in the Web3 Backend.
3. Done! Now you can receive emails at hello@fsociety.country. All emails will be secretly forwarded to mr.robot@gmail.com6
   1. An email is sent to hello@fsociety.country.
   2. DEES SMTP Server Receives the email and processes it via the SMTP Pipeline [^73] which updates the recipient via DEES Maddy sender /recepient rewriting(DMSR) custom developed module [^74] and then forwards the email 


**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

*Note for the DEES API development we can either enhance the existing Email Alias Service [^6] function to add SMTP administration API's or build a standlone server in go (Option 2). Initial thoughts is option 1 may be the preferred approach however both options have been included below for completeness.*


1. Email Alias Service [^6]
   1. Server: Modify to use DEES API instead of ImprovX
2. ENS-Deployer [^9]
   1. Include Deployment of EAS.sol (optional)
3. go-1ns [^10]
   1. Add EAS.sol abi
   2. Add read methods for Email Alias Services
   3. *Add update methods for Email Alias Service (Option 2 only)*
4. DEES - MSR Plugin (New Development)
   1. Integrate with go-1ns
   2. Add read functionality for Email Alias Service
5. DEES - API SMTP Administration 
   1. Email Alias Service - Server [^6] (Option 1)
      1.  Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)
   2. DEES API - (Option 2)
      1. Build lightweight go server
      2. Integrate with go-1ns
      3. Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)

**Deployment Tasks**

1. Deploy DEES Server - leveraging ns1.hiddenstate.xyz (web2 backend) or ns3.hiddenstate.xyz (web3 backend)

## Web3 Plugin for SMTP administration

DEES SMTP Server Receives the email and processes it via the SMTP Pipeline [^73] which updates the recipient via DEES Maddy sender /recepient rewriting(DMSR) custom developed module [^74] and then forwards the email 

**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

DEES - MSR Plugin (New Development)
1. Integrate with go-1ns
2. Add read functionality for Email Alias Service


## API Layer (SMTP administation)

The DEES mail server provides the following functionality (exposed by API's[^61] and backed by a web3 backend using IPFS for storage):

1. Account Management: provides the ability to retrieve your DEES account information and a list of whitelabeled domains.
2. Domain Managment: provides the ability to manage domains (list, add, get, update, delete) and check mx entries for the domain.
3. Aliases: provides the ability to manage aliases for a given domain (list, add, bulk add, update, delete).
4. Logs: Provides the ability to retrieve logs for both domains and aliases.
5. SMTP Credentials:  provides the ability to manage SMTP credentials (list, add, update, delete).

For a comparison of SMTP servers see [Appendix A - SMTP Server Review](#appendix-a---smtp-server-review) and for build out approach see [Appendix B - Implementation Strategy](#appendix-b---implementation-strategy).

**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

*Note for the DEES API development we can either enhance the existing Email Alias Service [^6] function to add SMTP administration API's or build a standlone server in go (Option 2). Initial thoughts is option 1 may be the preferred approach however both options have been included below for completeness.*

DEES - API SMTP Administration 
1. Email Alias Service - Server [^6] (Option 1)
  1.  Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)
2. DEES API - (Option 2)
  1. Build lightweight go server
  2. Integrate with go-1ns
  3. Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)

## Encrypted Mail

We could generate a key-pair for EAS user, and have the public key committed to EAS contract. We can implement something on our mail server such that all mails will be encrypted using the public key (if the user opts in), so only the user who holds the private key may decrypt and view the emails. It is hard to make this work for existing wallets (such as MetaMask), since the private key is not exposed and there is generally no "decrypt" API offered by the wallet. However, we may be able to add this as an interesting feature to SMS Wallet, since the private key is readily available in the local store.


## Decentralized Storage Plugin

Storage of emails could be done via IPFS and optionally encrypted.
For a reference implementation see Message Lifecyle in the Mailchain Whitepaper[^31].

**Infrastructure and developement tasks**
1. Develop IPFS Storage Plugin [^75]
2. Replace DKIM Plugin[^76] with web3 encryprton module.


## Appendices

### Appendix A - SMTP Server Review

Following is an overview of some [open source smtp github repositories](https://github.com/search?o=desc&q=smtp&s=forks&type=Repositories) selection criteria include

1. Language (Go, Node are preferred)
2. Adoption (Number of forks and quality of documentation)
3. Plugin capability (ability to add a plugin or modify the code modularly to integrate with web3 backend and optionally decentralized storage)
4. Extensibility capabilities to extend an API layer to support SMTP administration

Sample Repositories

* [GoLang](https://go.dev/#) [search](https://github.com/search?l=Go&o=desc&q=smtp&s=forks&type=Repositories)
  * [Maddy Mail Server](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy): Maddy Mail Server implements all functionality required to run a e-mail server. It supports [modules](https://maddy.email/reference/modules/) this is the [Issue capturing Modular Design](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy/issues/15) and [here are the go docs](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/foxcpp/maddy@v0.6.2#section-readme). Here is an article[Self-Hosted Email With maddy: A Naive First Attempt](https://mediocregopher.com/posts/selfhosted-email-with-maddy).
  * [go-smtp](https://github.com/emersion/go-smtp)
  * [mail-cow](https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized): The integrated mailcow UI allows administrative work on your mail server instance as well as separated domain administrator and mailbox user access.
  * [MailHog](https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog): MailHog is an email testing tool for developers. [smtp](https://github.com/mailhog/smtp)
  * [go-guerilla](https://github.com/flashmob/go-guerrilla)
* [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/) [search](https://github.com/search?l=JavaScript&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories)
  * [Haraka](https://github.com/haraka/Haraka): Haraka is a highly scalable node.js email server with a modular plugin architecture. ([configuration](https://github.com/haraka/Haraka#configure-haraka), [plugins](https://github.com/haraka/Haraka/blob/master/config/plugins))
  * [nodemailer smtp-server](https://github.com/nodemailer/smtp-server): Nodemailer is a module for Node.js applications  [docs](https://nodemailer.com/extras/smtp-server/)
* [C, c++](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)) (searches [C](https://github.com/search?l=C&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories), [C#](https://github.com/search?l=C%23&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories), [C++](https://github.com/search?l=C%2B%2B&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories) )
  * [https://github.com/hmailserver/hmailserver](https://github.com/hmailserver/hmailserver)
* [Python](https://www.python.org/)
  * [https://github.com/modoboa](https://github.com/modoboa)
* others
    * [https://github.com/iredmail/iRedMail](https://github.com/iredmail/iRedMail)


### Appendix B - Implementation Strategy

**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

*Note for the DEES API development we can either enhance the existing Email Alias Service [^6] function to add SMTP administration API's or build a standlone server in go (Option 2). Initial thoughts is option 1 may be the preferred approach however both options have been included below for completeness.*


1. Email Alias Service [^6]
   1. Server: Modify to use DEES API instead of ImprovX
2. ENS-Deployer [^9]
   1. Include Deployment of EAS.sol (optional)
3. go-1ns [^10]
   1. Add EAS.sol abi
   2. Add read methods for Email Alias Services
   3. *Add update methods for Email Alias Service (Option 2 only)*
4. DEES - MSR Plugin (New Development)
   1. Integrate with go-1ns
   2. Add read functionality for Email Alias Service
5. DEES - API SMTP Administration 
   1. Email Alias Service - Server [^6] (Option 1)
      1.  Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)
   2. DEES API - (Option 2)
      1. Build lightweight go server
      2. Integrate with go-1ns
      3. Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)


## Footnotes
<!-- Footnotes -->

<!-- Prior Work -->

[^1]: [RADICAL Market for Internet Domains, Crypto Names & Top-Level .country](https://open.harmony.one/rnft-market): Harmony is developing a maketplace, called RADICAL, specialized for domain names as nonfungible tokens (NFT).

[^2]: [.1.country subdomains](https://harmonyone.notion.site/1-country-subdomains-206b895b0b7841d18dd2d3ad6415ed26): Rent domains under .1.country (”ONE Country”) like r/place or “The Million Dollar Homepage”.

[^3]: [Browser extension for .1 redirect](https://harmonyone.notion.site/Browser-extension-for-1-redirect-fd249c09c1414e3786b929b1fe265a62): Develop browser extensions to resolve .1 Web3 crypto names to .1.country Web2 website domains.

[^4]: [.country Top-Level Domain](https://harmonyone.notion.site/country-Top-Level-Domain-5db61512025a4db88114785b4f899d7e): Minimal demo: Register new proper domains like s.country with ONE tokens as registrar extension – such that Tuscow manages the normal flows of fiat purchases and record maintenance. Custody and contact information can be just “Hidden States LLC” for now.

[^5]: [Project .country](https://github.com/harmony-one/dot-country/blob/main/README.md): the DC contract is meant to provide some "extra service" on top of ENS contracts. Therefore, it charges some additional fees on top of purchasing an ENS domain from the ENS app. (github)

[^6]: [Email Alias Service](https://github.com/harmony-one/dot-country/blob/main/mail.md): The Email Alias Service (EAS) provides .country domain owners email alias addresses which they can privately forward to their existing email addresses. (github)

[^7]: [1wallet](https://github.com/polymorpher/one-wallet/blob/master/README.md): 1wallet is designed for people who want the best and the latest from the world of crypto, but do not want to deal with senseless "mnemonic words", "private keys", or "seed phrases".  (github). 

[^8]: [SMS Wallet](https://github.com/polymorpher/sms-wallet): The SMS Wallet is a lightweight non-custodial wallet solution for users to quickly create a wallet bound to their phone number, receive (or purchase) inexpensive NFTs, showcase their NFTs, and to hold a small amount of crypto assets. (github)

[^9]: [ens-deployer](https://github.com/harmony-one/ens-deployer): 1NS related contract deployment, customized based on ENS contracts.

[^10]: [go-1ns](https://github.com/jw-1ns/go-1ns): Go module to simplify interacting with the 1 Name Service contracts. Initial version copied from go-ens

[^11]: [coredns-1ns](https://github.com/jw-1ns/coredns-1ns): CoreDNS-ONENS is a CoreDNS plugin that resolves DNS information over ONENS. It has two primary purposes 1. A general-purpose DNS resolver for DNS records stored on the Ethereum blockchain, 2. A specialised resolver for IPFS content hashes and gatways.


<!-- Blockchain email articles -->

[^21]: [Blockchain Email Now and in the Future Perspective](https://mailtrap.io/blog/email-and-blockchain/): The promise of blockchain in email (2022)

[^22]: [4 Best decentralized email clients for Windows 10/11](https://windowsreport.com/decentralized-email/): Some of the best apps for you to try in order to have more secure protection over your emails. (2021)

[^23]: [Blockchain-Based Email: Does the World Really Need It?](https://www.bitrates.com/news/p/blockchain-based-email-does-the-world-really-need-it): Some projects are developing blockchain-based email services. This could enhance security and privacy―but are these services truly useful? (2019)

[^24]: [OpenTechFund secure-email](https://github.com/OpenTechFund/secure-email): There are an increasing number of projects working on next generation secure email or email-like communication. This is an initial draft report highlighting the projects and comparing the approaches. (2017)

<!-- Blockchain email projects -->

[^31]: [Mailchain](https://mailchain.com/): All of Web3. All in one Inbox. Blockchain mail project with [whitepaper](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6193af32c4bb83588771612b/63615c7c45b9763f80123418_Mailchain%20Whitepaper%20v0.3.pdf), [documentation](https://docs.mailchain.com/developer/) and [github](https://github.com/mailchain).

[^32]: [Dmail Network](https://dmail.ai/): Construct DID in Web 3.0, Not just an Email. Blockchain digital identity project with [light paper](https://dmail.ai/Dmail_litepaper.pdf), [documentation](https://dmailofficial.gitbook.io/helpcenter/v/english/product-tutorial/how-to-use-dmail), [medium](https://medium.com/@dmail_official) and [github](https://github.com/dmailofficial) is no longer visible.

[^33]: [LedgerMail](https://ledgermail.io/): World's FirstBlockchain Email Service. Blockchain email project with [blog](https://ledgermail.io/blog.html) and [github](https://github.com/Ledgermail).


<!-- Whitepapers -->

[^41]: [Mailchain: The Communication Protocol For Web3](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6193af32c4bb83588771612b/63615c7c45b9763f80123418_Mailchain%20Whitepaper%20v0.3.pdf): Mailchain is the communication layer for Web3 designed to serve billions of users, each with multiple identities, providing a private, end-to-end encrypted mail experience. This paper outlines the background, design approach, technology, and roadmap of the Mailchain protocol.

[^42]: [Dmail Network](https://dmail.ai/Dmail_litepaper.pdf): The transmission of a string of words opened the door to the Internet, thus beginning the booming development of the Internet. In the Crypto World, we also hope to take information transmission as a starting point and promote a leapfrog development of applications in the blockchain ecosystem. Therefore, we established a decentralized version of NFT mail application called "Dmail."

<!-- Github Repositories Blockchain email projects-->

[^51]: [DonaldKwan/dmail](https://github.com/DonaldKwan/dmail): Decentralized Email is an Ethereum DApp that combines messaging, modern cryptographic techniques, and the blockchain.

[^52]: [noman-land/Dmail](https://github.com/noman-land/dMail): Distributed, decentralized mail. Built on Ethereum and IPFS

[^53]: [mailchain](https://github.com/mailchain): Mailchain github organization. Includes [mailchain-sdk-js/packages](https://github.com/mailchain/mailchain-sdk-js/tree/main/packages).

<!-- Additional References and Standards-->

[^61]: [ImprovMX](https://improvmx.com/api/): The [Improvmx](https://improvmx.com/) hosted smtp server api's provide a good reference point for the DEES web3 implementation.

[^62]: [DomainKeys Identified Mail](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DomainKeys_Identified_Mail): is an email authentication method designed to detect forged sender addresses in email (email spoofing), a technique often used in phishing and email spam.


<!-- Maddy email server-->

[^71]: [Maddy Mail Server](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy): Maddy Mail Server implements all functionality required to run a e-mail server. [Here are the go docs](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/foxcpp/maddy@v0.6.2#section-readme). Here is an article[Self-Hosted Email With maddy: A Naive First Attempt](https://mediocregopher.com/posts/selfhosted-email-with-maddy). [Here is a comparison with MailCow](https://maddy.email/faq/#how-maddy-compares-to-mailcow-or-mail-in-the-box).

[^72]: [Maddy Modular Design](https://maddy.email/reference/modules/): maddy is built of many small components called "modules". Each module does one certain well-defined task.  This is the [Issue capturing Modular Design](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy/issues/15).

[^73]: [Maddy SMTP message routing pipeline](https://maddy.email/reference/smtp-pipeline/): Message pipeline is a set of module references and associated rules that describe how to handle messages.

[^74]: [Maddy Envelope sender / recipient rewriting](https://maddy.email/reference/modifiers/envelope/): `replace_sender` and `replace_rcpt` modules replace SMTP envelope addresses based on the mapping defined by the table module (maddy-tables(5)). It is possible to specify 1:N mappings. This allows, for example, implementing mailing lists.

[^75]: [Maddy Storage](https://maddy.email/reference/storage/imap-filters/): Maddy provides a suite of storage capabilities including [IMAP Fileters](https://maddy.email/reference/storage/imap-filters/) allows code to change target folder and add IMAP flags (keywords) to the message, [SQL-indexed storage](https://maddy.email/reference/storage/imapsql/) database for IMAP index and message metadata using SQL-based relational database and Blob Storage to store message bodies currently supporting [Amazon S3](https://maddy.email/reference/blob/s3/) and [File System](https://maddy.email/reference/blob/fs/). *Note: custom modules could be developed to suport IPFS and provide a decentralized storage layer.*

[^76]: [Maddy DKIM Signing](https://maddy.email/reference/modifiers/dkim/): modify.dkim module is a modifier that signs messages using DKIM protocol (RFC 6376).





<!-- Additional Items -->

Commit message:

Address feedback from @polymorpher, API is optional decentralized storage, encrypted mail removed

docs/DESIGNV2.md, after:

# Self-hosted Mail Server

The self hosted mail server is the foundational component for Email Alias Service V2. It's role is to support SMTP administration and handle the forwarding and managment of emails. 

An evaluation of open source SMTP servers can be found in [Appendix A -SMTP Server Review](#appendix-a---smtp-server-review).

**Example**

Following is an example scenario from [Email Alias Service](#appendix-d---email-alias-service):

> 1. Buy a .country domain (e.g., fsociety.country)
> 2. Activate Email Alias Service by setting a forwarding email address (e.g., mr.robot@gmail.com)
> 3. Done! Now you can receive emails at hello@fsociety.country. All emails will be secretly forwarded to mr.robot@gmail.com

Here is the same example broken down in to the technical components, in this example we assume the use of Maddy email server[^71]

 *Note: Maddy was chosen over mailcow due to it's modular framework [^72] support allowing for development of web3 plugins*

**Technical Process Flow (High Level)**

1. Buy a .country domain (e.g., fsociety.country)
   1. User interacts with dot-country fronted [^5]
   2. Pricing is retrieved from [DC.sol](https://github.com/polymorpher/dot-country/tree/main/contracts/contracts) via the relayer
   3. User Authorizes and purchases the domain using the 1ns contracts deployed via ens-deployer [^9].
2. Activate Email Alias Service by setting a forwarding email address (e.g., mr.robot@gmail.com)
   1. User interacts with EAS Frontend[^6]
   2. EAS Frontend calls interacts directly with `EAS.sol` checking the signer of the alias update transaction is the owner of the domain and updating alias information in EASConfig . *Note: An alternate approach is the front-end calls a DEES API which interacts with the DEES Maddy sender /recipient rewriting(DMSR) custom developed module [^74] or alternatively interacts with the server EAS server[^6].*
   3. If using a go-enabled api server the MSR Module interacts with go-1ns [^10] to update the EAS Contract[^6] setting alias information in the Web3 Backend.
3. Done! Now you can receive emails at hello@fsociety.country. All emails will be secretly forwarded to mr.robot@gmail.com6
   1. An email is sent to hello@fsociety.country.
   2. DEES SMTP Server Receives acts as the MX server to forward the email and processes it via the SMTP Pipeline [^73] which updates the recipient via DEES Maddy sender /recepient rewriting(DMSR) custom developed module [^74] and then forwards the email.


**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

*Note for the DEES API development we can either enhance the existing Email Alias Service [^6] function to add SMTP administration API's or build a standlone server in go (Option 2). Initial thoughts is option 1 may be the preferred approach however both options have been included below for completeness.*


1. Email Alias Service [^6]
   1. Server: Modify to use DEES API instead of ImprovX
2. ENS-Deployer [^9]
   1. Include Deployment of EAS.sol (optional)
3. go-1ns [^10]
   1. Add EAS.sol abi
   2. Add read methods for Email Alias Services
   3. *Add update methods for Email Alias Service (Option 2 only)*
4. DEES - MSR Plugin (New Development)
   1. Integrate with go-1ns
   2. Add read functionality for Email Alias Service
5. DEES - API SMTP Administration 
   1. Email Alias Service - Server [^6] (Option 1)
      1.  Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)
   2. DEES API - (Option 2)
      1. Build lightweight go server
      2. Integrate with go-1ns
      3. Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)

**Deployment Tasks**

1. Deploy DEES Server - leveraging ns1.hiddenstate.xyz (web2 backend) or ns3.hiddenstate.xyz (web3 backend)

## Web3 Plugin for SMTP administration

DEES SMTP Server Receives the email and processes it via the SMTP Pipeline [^73] which updates the recipient via DEES Maddy sender /recepient rewriting(DMSR) custom developed module [^74] and then forwards the email 

**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

DEES - MSR Plugin (New Development)
1. Integrate with go-1ns
2. Add read functionality for Email Alias Service


## API Layer (SMTP administation)

The DEES mail server provides the following functionality (exposed by API's[^61] and backed by a web3 backend using IPFS for storage):

1. Account Management: provides the ability to retrieve your DEES account information and a list of whitelabeled domains.
2. Domain Managment: provides the ability to manage domains (list, add, get, update, delete) and check mx entries for the domain.
3. Aliases: provides the ability to manage aliases for a given domain (list, add, bulk add, update, delete).
4. Logs: Provides the ability to retrieve logs for both domains and aliases.
5. SMTP Credentials:  provides the ability to manage SMTP credentials (list, add, update, delete).

For a comparison of SMTP servers see [Appendix A - SMTP Server Review](#appendix-a---smtp-server-review) and for build out approach see [Appendix B - Implementation Strategy](#appendix-b---implementation-strategy).

**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

*Note for the DEES API development we can either enhance the existing Email Alias Service [^6] function to add SMTP administration API's or build a standlone server in go (Option 2). Initial thoughts is option 1 may be the preferred approach however both options have been included below for completeness.*

DEES - API SMTP Administration 
1. Email Alias Service - Server [^6] (Option 1)
  1.  Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)
2. DEES API - (Option 2)
  1. Build lightweight go server
  2. Integrate with go-1ns
  3. Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)

## Appendices

### Appendix A - SMTP Server Review

Following is an overview of some [open source smtp github repositories](https://github.com/search?o=desc&q=smtp&s=forks&type=Repositories) selection criteria include

1. Language (Go, Node are preferred)
2. Adoption (Number of forks and quality of documentation)
3. Plugin capability (ability to add a plugin or modify the code modularly to integrate with web3 backend and optionally decentralized storage)
4. Extensibility capabilities to extend an API layer to support SMTP administration

Sample Repositories

* [GoLang](https://go.dev/#) [search](https://github.com/search?l=Go&o=desc&q=smtp&s=forks&type=Repositories)
  * [Maddy Mail Server](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy): Maddy Mail Server implements all functionality required to run a e-mail server. It supports [modules](https://maddy.email/reference/modules/) this is the [Issue capturing Modular Design](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy/issues/15) and [here are the go docs](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/foxcpp/maddy@v0.6.2#section-readme). Here is an article[Self-Hosted Email With maddy: A Naive First Attempt](https://mediocregopher.com/posts/selfhosted-email-with-maddy).
  * [go-smtp](https://github.com/emersion/go-smtp)
  * [mail-cow](https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized): The integrated mailcow UI allows administrative work on your mail server instance as well as separated domain administrator and mailbox user access.
  * [MailHog](https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog): MailHog is an email testing tool for developers. [smtp](https://github.com/mailhog/smtp)
  * [go-guerilla](https://github.com/flashmob/go-guerrilla)
* [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/) [search](https://github.com/search?l=JavaScript&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories)
  * [Haraka](https://github.com/haraka/Haraka): Haraka is a highly scalable node.js email server with a modular plugin architecture. ([configuration](https://github.com/haraka/Haraka#configure-haraka), [plugins](https://github.com/haraka/Haraka/blob/master/config/plugins))
  * [nodemailer smtp-server](https://github.com/nodemailer/smtp-server): Nodemailer is a module for Node.js applications  [docs](https://nodemailer.com/extras/smtp-server/)
* [C, c++](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)) (searches [C](https://github.com/search?l=C&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories), [C#](https://github.com/search?l=C%23&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories), [C++](https://github.com/search?l=C%2B%2B&o=desc&q=smtp&s=stars&type=Repositories) )
  * [https://github.com/hmailserver/hmailserver](https://github.com/hmailserver/hmailserver)
* [Python](https://www.python.org/)
  * [https://github.com/modoboa](https://github.com/modoboa)
* others
    * [https://github.com/iredmail/iRedMail](https://github.com/iredmail/iRedMail)


### Appendix B - Implementation Strategy

**Infrastructure Components and Development Tasks**

*Note for the DEES API development we can either enhance the existing Email Alias Service [^6] function to add SMTP administration API's or build a standlone server in go (Option 2). Initial thoughts is option 1 may be the preferred approach however both options have been included below for completeness.*


1. Email Alias Service [^6]
   1. Server: Modify to use DEES API instead of ImprovX
2. ENS-Deployer [^9]
   1. Include Deployment of EAS.sol (optional)
3. go-1ns [^10]
   1. Add EAS.sol abi
   2. Add read methods for Email Alias Services
   3. *Add update methods for Email Alias Service (Option 2 only)*
4. DEES - MSR Plugin (New Development)
   1. Integrate with go-1ns
   2. Add read functionality for Email Alias Service
5. DEES - API SMTP Administration 
   1. Email Alias Service - Server [^6] (Option 1)
      1.  Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)
   2. DEES API - (Option 2)
      1. Build lightweight go server
      2. Integrate with go-1ns
      3. Develop [API Layer for SMTP administation](#api-layer-smtp-administation)


## Footnotes
<!-- Footnotes -->

<!-- Prior Work -->

[^1]: [RADICAL Market for Internet Domains, Crypto Names & Top-Level .country](https://open.harmony.one/rnft-market): Harmony is developing a maketplace, called RADICAL, specialized for domain names as nonfungible tokens (NFT).

[^2]: [.1.country subdomains](https://harmonyone.notion.site/1-country-subdomains-206b895b0b7841d18dd2d3ad6415ed26): Rent domains under .1.country (”ONE Country”) like r/place or “The Million Dollar Homepage”.

[^3]: [Browser extension for .1 redirect](https://harmonyone.notion.site/Browser-extension-for-1-redirect-fd249c09c1414e3786b929b1fe265a62): Develop browser extensions to resolve .1 Web3 crypto names to .1.country Web2 website domains.

[^4]: [.country Top-Level Domain](https://harmonyone.notion.site/country-Top-Level-Domain-5db61512025a4db88114785b4f899d7e): Minimal demo: Register new proper domains like s.country with ONE tokens as registrar extension – such that Tuscow manages the normal flows of fiat purchases and record maintenance. Custody and contact information can be just “Hidden States LLC” for now.

[^5]: [Project .country](https://github.com/harmony-one/dot-country/blob/main/README.md): the DC contract is meant to provide some "extra service" on top of ENS contracts. Therefore, it charges some additional fees on top of purchasing an ENS domain from the ENS app. (github)

[^6]: [Email Alias Service](https://github.com/harmony-one/dot-country/blob/main/mail.md): The Email Alias Service (EAS) provides .country domain owners email alias addresses which they can privately forward to their existing email addresses. (github)

[^7]: [1wallet](https://github.com/polymorpher/one-wallet/blob/master/README.md): 1wallet is designed for people who want the best and the latest from the world of crypto, but do not want to deal with senseless "mnemonic words", "private keys", or "seed phrases".  (github). 

[^8]: [SMS Wallet](https://github.com/polymorpher/sms-wallet): The SMS Wallet is a lightweight non-custodial wallet solution for users to quickly create a wallet bound to their phone number, receive (or purchase) inexpensive NFTs, showcase their NFTs, and to hold a small amount of crypto assets. (github)

[^9]: [ens-deployer](https://github.com/harmony-one/ens-deployer): 1NS related contract deployment, customized based on ENS contracts.

[^10]: [go-1ns](https://github.com/jw-1ns/go-1ns): Go module to simplify interacting with the 1 Name Service contracts. Initial version copied from go-ens

[^11]: [coredns-1ns](https://github.com/jw-1ns/coredns-1ns): CoreDNS-ONENS is a CoreDNS plugin that resolves DNS information over ONENS. It has two primary purposes 1. A general-purpose DNS resolver for DNS records stored on the Ethereum blockchain, 2. A specialised resolver for IPFS content hashes and gatways.


<!-- Blockchain email articles -->

[^21]: [Blockchain Email Now and in the Future Perspective](https://mailtrap.io/blog/email-and-blockchain/): The promise of blockchain in email (2022)

[^22]: [4 Best decentralized email clients for Windows 10/11](https://windowsreport.com/decentralized-email/): Some of the best apps for you to try in order to have more secure protection over your emails. (2021)

[^23]: [Blockchain-Based Email: Does the World Really Need It?](https://www.bitrates.com/news/p/blockchain-based-email-does-the-world-really-need-it): Some projects are developing blockchain-based email services. This could enhance security and privacy―but are these services truly useful? (2019)

[^24]: [OpenTechFund secure-email](https://github.com/OpenTechFund/secure-email): There are an increasing number of projects working on next generation secure email or email-like communication. This is an initial draft report highlighting the projects and comparing the approaches. (2017)

<!-- Blockchain email projects -->

[^31]: [Mailchain](https://mailchain.com/): All of Web3. All in one Inbox. Blockchain mail project with [whitepaper](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6193af32c4bb83588771612b/63615c7c45b9763f80123418_Mailchain%20Whitepaper%20v0.3.pdf), [documentation](https://docs.mailchain.com/developer/) and [github](https://github.com/mailchain).

[^32]: [Dmail Network](https://dmail.ai/): Construct DID in Web 3.0, Not just an Email. Blockchain digital identity project with [light paper](https://dmail.ai/Dmail_litepaper.pdf), [documentation](https://dmailofficial.gitbook.io/helpcenter/v/english/product-tutorial/how-to-use-dmail), [medium](https://medium.com/@dmail_official) and [github](https://github.com/dmailofficial) is no longer visible.

[^33]: [LedgerMail](https://ledgermail.io/): World's FirstBlockchain Email Service. Blockchain email project with [blog](https://ledgermail.io/blog.html) and [github](https://github.com/Ledgermail).


<!-- Whitepapers -->

[^41]: [Mailchain: The Communication Protocol For Web3](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6193af32c4bb83588771612b/63615c7c45b9763f80123418_Mailchain%20Whitepaper%20v0.3.pdf): Mailchain is the communication layer for Web3 designed to serve billions of users, each with multiple identities, providing a private, end-to-end encrypted mail experience. This paper outlines the background, design approach, technology, and roadmap of the Mailchain protocol.

[^42]: [Dmail Network](https://dmail.ai/Dmail_litepaper.pdf): The transmission of a string of words opened the door to the Internet, thus beginning the booming development of the Internet. In the Crypto World, we also hope to take information transmission as a starting point and promote a leapfrog development of applications in the blockchain ecosystem. Therefore, we established a decentralized version of NFT mail application called "Dmail."

<!-- Github Repositories Blockchain email projects-->

[^51]: [DonaldKwan/dmail](https://github.com/DonaldKwan/dmail): Decentralized Email is an Ethereum DApp that combines messaging, modern cryptographic techniques, and the blockchain.

[^52]: [noman-land/Dmail](https://github.com/noman-land/dMail): Distributed, decentralized mail. Built on Ethereum and IPFS

[^53]: [mailchain](https://github.com/mailchain): Mailchain github organization. Includes [mailchain-sdk-js/packages](https://github.com/mailchain/mailchain-sdk-js/tree/main/packages).

<!-- Additional References and Standards-->

[^61]: [ImprovMX](https://improvmx.com/api/): The [Improvmx](https://improvmx.com/) hosted smtp server api's provide a good reference point for the DEES web3 implementation.

[^62]: [DomainKeys Identified Mail](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DomainKeys_Identified_Mail): is an email authentication method designed to detect forged sender addresses in email (email spoofing), a technique often used in phishing and email spam.


<!-- Maddy email server-->

[^71]: [Maddy Mail Server](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy): Maddy Mail Server implements all functionality required to run a e-mail server. [Here are the go docs](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/foxcpp/maddy@v0.6.2#section-readme). Here is an article[Self-Hosted Email With maddy: A Naive First Attempt](https://mediocregopher.com/posts/selfhosted-email-with-maddy). [Here is a comparison with MailCow](https://maddy.email/faq/#how-maddy-compares-to-mailcow-or-mail-in-the-box).

[^72]: [Maddy Modular Design](https://maddy.email/reference/modules/): maddy is built of many small components called "modules". Each module does one certain well-defined task.  This is the [Issue capturing Modular Design](https://github.com/foxcpp/maddy/issues/15).

[^73]: [Maddy SMTP message routing pipeline](https://maddy.email/reference/smtp-pipeline/): Message pipeline is a set of module references and associated rules that describe how to handle messages.

[^74]: [Maddy Envelope sender / recipient rewriting](https://maddy.email/reference/modifiers/envelope/): `replace_sender` and `replace_rcpt` modules replace SMTP envelope addresses based on the mapping defined by the table module (maddy-tables(5)). It is possible to specify 1:N mappings. This allows, for example, implementing mailing lists.

[^75]: [Maddy Storage](https://maddy.email/reference/storage/imap-filters/): Maddy provides a suite of storage capabilities including [IMAP Fileters](https://maddy.email/reference/storage/imap-filters/) allows code to change target folder and add IMAP flags (keywords) to the message, [SQL-indexed storage](https://maddy.email/reference/storage/imapsql/) database for IMAP index and message metadata using SQL-based relational database and Blob Storage to store message bodies currently supporting [Amazon S3](https://maddy.email/reference/blob/s3/) and [File System](https://maddy.email/reference/blob/fs/). *Note: custom modules could be developed to suport IPFS and provide a decentralized storage layer.*

[^76]: [Maddy DKIM Signing](https://maddy.email/reference/modifiers/dkim/): modify.dkim module is a modifier that signs messages using DKIM protocol (RFC 6376).





<!-- Additional Items -->
